this video is brought to you by movie
[Music]
greetings and welcome to earthling
cinema i am your host garyx wormuloid
this week's artifact is children of men
directed by celebrated auteur Alfonso
Ribeiro but before we start movie isn't
just the way scooby-doo says the word
movie it's also a curated streaming
service where you watch some of
humanity's greatest artifacts curated by
film nerds movie ads a new film every
day ranging from award-winning classics
to cult members to classics like Errol
Morris's OG true crime documentary The
Thin Blue Line streaming right now while
they may be nerds they're not that smart
because they're giving away a month for
free no strings attached
don't let them know what an error
they've made and go to MU Beacom slash
aliens guide or click the link in the
description to freeload The Thin Blue
Line right now it really helps the show
and now back to it the film takes place
on an idealized vision of earth where
humans can't reproduce with every other
country cancelled only the UK has
managed a renewal our protagonist is
pencil puller Theo Faron whose ex-wife
is a literal terrorist not to be
confused with my ex-wife who is a
regular terrorist as the leader of a
rock band called fish you earned the
jurisdiction of the fishes she tells
Theo it's his weekend to transport a
refugee he carefully drinks it over and
they take Penny Lane to Abbey Road
just like the old Beetlejuice ditty they
crash a flash mob and his ex-wife is
killed but it isn't all happy
Luke executes two members of the Popo so
they hightail it to his Cal Factory in a
shocking Pepsi twist the refugee key
tells Theo she's got a bad case of fetus
tummy and gets topless just call us but
the Pepsi twist turns out to be BOGO
after conveniently overhearing a plot
relevant conversation he's a dead man
tomorrow then Theo commits some light
GTA and drives key to the safest place
in the world his pot dealers house they
hatch a plan to take a Carnival cruise
to the closest unplanned Parenthood but
when the band rolls in they leave while
Alfred distracts them with his tight
five-oh my finger
they take a Magic School Bus to the
us-mexico border just as key starts
pissing on everything like she owns the
place
this Theo pulls a baby out of her hat
and thankfully this time it's not mine
unfortunately their Airbnb has a strict
birth policy which is no births so they
have to take it to the streets where a
Battle of the Bands ensues fish takes
the baby and key as their groupies but
Theo tracks them to a charming
fixer-upper and just sort of walks them
out charmed by those widdle wolves of
fat the police and fish immediately stop
fighting and tell them no hard feelings
they hop into a water car and he reveals
he's covered in sauce and will have to
stay behind to dryclean his shirt
he teaches Key how to train her baby
just as the Titanic pulls on children of
men is full to the gills with references
rather than saturating Earth's
hypothetical future with Dad tech the
film infuses the world with references
to geopolitical conflicts of Earth's
past and then present which is now the
past because we are in the future which
is our present got it featuring visual
allusions to the israel-palestine beef
France France revolution and the 2003
Abu Ghraib scandal by Shonda Rhimes
there's something sad in there for the
whole family at other moments the Fuji
Camp evokes camps used by the Nazis in
ww2 ww3
and again on Zee Day which wasn't a
world war but still not cool these
carefully curated images suggest that
the imagined conflicts of Earth's end
time had already begun in 2006 which
wasn't wrong these references extend
beyond geopolitics to the film's use of
music mp3's as Theo approaches the Art
Museum in the Court of the Crimson King
by King Crimson plays suggesting that
Theo's cousin is the Crimson King aka
the devil aka big red similarly the
Rolling Stones hit goodbye Ruby Tuesday
a piece lamenting band member Keith
Richards loss of love is
recontextualized when it plays as Jasper
says goodbye to his true love
basta brews but the film is at its most
poignant when it makes references to
class
chuckle art as the dentally challenged
custodians of western civ the British
government safeguards what's left of
European art I mean if you call that art
is not nearly enough dimensions Theo
travels to a highly secured facility
where prized works are safeguarded from
IEDs and your grubby little hands it's
named The Arc of Arts is a nod to Noah's
Ark famously chronicled in the seminal
human text Evan Almighty while the art
is stowed away in an ivory tower the
film recontextualizes them within MTV's
the real world
Theo dines in luxury while framed by
Diablo Picasso's Guernica famous for its
anti-war message in response to a
bombing during the Spanish Civil War the
now sanitized carnage of Guernica
foreshadows the bloody carnage of the
refugee camp
similarly the curator laments the loss
of Michelangelo's pietà only for the
camera to later document a refugee
holding her dead son itself plagiarized
from a photo dubbed the Pieta of Kosovo
while the government demonizes refugees
a pregnant one as humanity's only hope
to keep spreading the disease that is
themselves when she reveals her baby
bump he takes on the pose of Mario
Batali's The Birth of Venus a piece
depicting a pagan figure while
Christianity was still in this suggests
that art divorced from reality is
stripped of meaning in replicating art
in the real world the film rectifies
this loss without having to pay a
royalty fee adding to the film's
realness is the film's documentary style
camera work using oners the camera
reacts to the events on screen often
wandering to depict the world around the
protagonist when they're not playing
mouth pong from the six-minute shot in
the refugee camp to the minute long
warm-up shot to the cameras tendency to
focus on the background the film
immerses the audience in this war-torn
world instead of the superhot actors we
paid to see these techniques suggest
that these issues aren't relegated to
the future but are fully realized on
present-day earth which for reference is
this
earthling cinema i'm garyx wormuloid
baby baby baby thanks again to movie for
supporting our show if you like cinema
artifacts as much as I then you'll love
Mubi everyday movie premieres a new film
ranging from films you've heard of two
films that have heard of you if you'd
only give them a chance
currently the thin blue line is
streaming which very importantly won a
ton of awards and semi importantly freed
an innocent man from prison it's like
your very own personal film festival
right in your house - all the
celebrities and social interaction try
movie free for 30 days at MU be calm
slash aliens guide that's mu bi comm
slash aliens guide or just click on the
link in the description
without mu B we wouldn't be able to
bring you new episodes
[Music]